# Email Verifier Tools

## What is this project about ?

In this project we will be building an Email verifier tool

## Dependencies
- `Bufio` - Package bufio implements buffered I/O. It wraps an io.Reader or io.Writer object, creating another object (Reader or Writer) that also implements the interface but provides buffering and some help for textual I/O.
- `net` - Package net provides a portable interface for network I/O, including TCP/IP, UDP, domain name resolution, and Unix domain sockets.

## Topics I have Learnt
- `NewScanner`- NewScanner is a function provided by the bufio package. It creates a new Scanner type that can be used to read input.
- `scanner.Scan()` - Scan advances the Scanner to the next token, which will then be available through the Bytes or Text method.
- `scanner.Text()` - Text returns the most recent token generated by a call to Scan as a newly allocated string holding its bytes
- `net.LookupMX` - The returned mail server names are validated to be properly formatted presentation-format domain names. If the response contains invalid names, those records are filtered out and an error will be returned alongside the remaining results, if any.
- `LookupTXT` - It is a function provided by Go's net package. It helps you find information stored as TXT records for a particular domain name.

# Process to run this project 

## Building the Program

To build the program, you need to have Go installed on your system. Follow these steps:

1. Clone the repository and jump to the particular project you want to try

2. Open a terminal or command prompt and navigate to the directory where `main.go` is located.

3. Run the following command to build the program:
   ```go build```

## Running the Program
Once the program is built, you can run it to check domains. Follow these steps:

Open a terminal or command prompt.

Navigate to the directory where the main (or main.exe) file is located.

Run the following command to start the program:

```go run main.go```

This will start the program and prompt you to enter a domain.

Enter the domain you want to check, and press Enter. The program will retrieve and display information about the domain's MX record, SPF record, DMARC record, and their existence.
